Tutorials > On-Chain Governance > How to Fast Track a Governance Proposal (#223)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal.md

---
title: How to Fast Track a Governance Proposal
description: Learn how to fast track governance proposals in Polkadot's OpenGov using Chopsticks. Simulate, test, and execute proposals confidently.
---

> # How to Fast Track a Governance Proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Fast Track a Governance Proposal
```

## Introduction

> Polkadot's [OpenGov](/polkadot-protocol/onchain-governance/overview){target=\_blank} is a sophisticated governance mechanism designed to allow the network to evolve gracefully over time, guided by its stakeholders. This system features multiple [tracks](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-polkadot-opengov-origins#origins-and-tracks-info){target=\_blank} for different types of proposals, each with its own parameters for approval, support, and timing. While this flexibility is powerful, it also introduces complexity that can lead to failed proposals or unexpected outcomes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Polkadot's [OpenGov](/polkadot-protocol/onchain-governance/overview){target=\_blank} is a sophisticated governance mechanism designed to allow the network to evolve gracefully over time, guided by its stakeholders. This system features multiple [tracks](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-polkadot-opengov-origins#origins-and-tracks-info){target=\_blank} for different types of proposals, each with its own parameters for approval, support, and confirmation period. While this flexibility is powerful, it also introduces complexity that can lead to failed proposals or unexpected outcomes.
```

Testing governance proposals before submission is crucial for the ecosystem. This process enhances efficiency by reducing the need for repeated submissions, improves security by identifying potential risks, and allows for proposal optimization based on simulated outcomes. It also serves as an educational tool, providing stakeholders with a safe environment to understand the impacts of different voting scenarios. 

By leveraging simulation tools like [Chopsticks](/develop/toolkit/parachains/fork-chains/chopsticks){target=\_blank}, developers and governance participants can:

- Simulate the entire lifecycle of a proposal

> - Test various voting outcomes and participation levels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Test the voting outcomes by varying the support and approval levels
```

> - Analyze the effects of successful proposals on the network state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Analyze the effects of successfully executed proposal on the network's state
```

> - Identify potential issues or unexpected consequences before real-world implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Identify and troubleshoot potential issues or unexpected consequences before submitting the proposals
```

> - Identify and troubleshoot potential issues or unexpected consequences before submitting the proposals

Reviewer: IMO, this section does not add much value to the tutorial, and we should remove it, wdyt?

Otherwise, if we plan to keep it, we should remove this part: "and governance participants", since I don't think governance participants who are NOT developers might understand the snippets and so on

This tutorial will guide you through the process of using Chopsticks to thoroughly test OpenGov proposals, ensuring that when you submit a proposal to the live network, you can do so with confidence in its effects and viability.

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, ensure the following prerequisites are met:

- **Chopsticks installation** - if you have not installed Chopsticks yet, refer to the [Install Chopsticks](/develop/toolkit/parachains/fork-chains/chopsticks/get-started/#install-chopsticks){target=\_blank} for detailed instructions
- **Familiarity with key concepts** - you should have a basic understanding of the following:
    - [Polkadot.js](/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/polkadot-js-api){target=\_blank} 
    - [OpenGov](/polkadot-protocol/onchain-governance/overview){target=\_blank}

## Setting Up the Project

> Before diving into testing OpenGov proposals, you need to set up your development environment. You'll create a TypeScript project and install the necessary dependencies. You'll use Chopsticks to fork the Polkadot network and simulate the proposal lifecycle, while Polkadot.js will be your interface for interacting with the forked network and submitting proposals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before testing OpenGov proposals, you need to set up your development environment. 
You'll set up a TypeScript project and install the required dependencies to simulate and evaluate proposals. You'll use Chopsticks to fork the Polkadot network and simulate the proposal lifecycle, while Polkadot.js will be your interface for interacting with the forked network and submitting proposals.
```

Follow these steps to set up your project:

1. Create a new project directory and navigate into it:
    ```bash
    mkdir opengov-chopsticks && cd opengov-chopsticks
    ```

2. Initialize a new TypeScript project:
    ```bash
    npm init -y \
    && npm install typescript ts-node @types/node --save-dev \
    && npx tsc --init
    ```

3. Install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install @polkadot/api @acala-network/chopsticks
    ```

4. Create a new TypeScript file for your script:
    ```bash
    touch test-proposal.ts
    ```

	!!!note
		The `test-proposal.ts` file is where you'll write your code to simulate and test OpenGov proposals.

5. Open the `tsconfig.json` file and ensure it includes these compiler options:
    ```json
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/tsconfig.json'
    ```

## Submitting and Executing a Proposal Using Chopsticks

> It's important to note that you should identify the right track and origin for your proposal. For example, if you're requesting funds from the treasury, select the appropriate treasury track based on the spend limits. For more detailed information, refer to [Polkadot OpenGov Origins](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-polkadot-opengov-origins){target=_blank}.

Reviewer: I think we should redirect to our page about origins, and from there, redirect to the wiki if needed

/polkadot-protocol/onchain-governance/overview/#origins-and-tracks

!!!note
    In this tutorial, the focus will be on the main steps and core logic within the main function. For clarity and conciseness, the implementation details of individual functions will be available in expandable tabs below each section. At the end of the tutorial, you'll find the complete code for reference.

### Spin Up the Polkadot Fork

> Before you can interact with the forked network, you need to start it using Chopsticks. Open a new terminal window and run the following command:

Reviewer: This first sentence sounds a bit weird to me

```
npx @acala-network/chopsticks --config=polkadot
```

> This command will start a local fork of the Polkadot network accesible at `ws://localhost:8000`. Keep this terminal window open and running throughout your testing process.
> Once your forked network is up and running, you can proceed with the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will start a local fork of the Polkadot network accesible at `ws://localhost:8000`. Keep this terminal window open and running throughout your testing process.

Once your forked network is up and running, you can proceed with the following steps.
```

### Set Up Dependencies and Structure

Begin by adding the necessary imports and a basic structure:

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:imports'

const main = async () => {
	// The code will be added here

	process.exit(0)
}

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:try-catch-block'
```

This structure provides the foundation for your script. It imports all the necessary dependencies and sets up a main function that will contain the core logic of your proposal submission process.

### Connect to the Forked Chain

Inside your `main` function, add the code to connect to your local Polkadot fork:

```typescript hl_lines="2-3"
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:main'
```

???+ function "**connectToFork** ()"

	```typescript
	--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:connectToFork'
	```

### Create and Submit the Proposal

In this step, you will perform the following actions:

1. Define the call you want to execute and its origin
2. Create a preimage using the selected call

> 3. Submit the proposal. It uses the preimage hash (obtained from the call) as part of the proposal submission. The proposal is submitted with the selected origin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Submit the proposal. It uses the preimage hash (obtained from the call) as part of the proposal submission process. The proposal is submitted with the selected origin
```

> 3. Submit the proposal. It uses the preimage hash (obtained from the call) as part of the proposal submission process. The proposal is submitted with the selected origin

Reviewer: Maybe it's worth it to link to some reference for preimage hash or something

4. Place decision deposit. This deposit is required to move the referendum from the preparing phase to the deciding phase

```typescript hl_lines="5-14"
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:main'
```

!!!note

>     The `setCodeWithoutChecks` extrinsic used in this example is for demonstration purposes only. Replace it with the specific extrinsic that matches your governance proposal's intended functionality. Ensure the call matches the runtime requirements and governance process of your target Polkadot SDK-based network.

Reviewer: nit picking here, but would be cool to add a link to https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/struct.Pallet.html#method.set_code_without_checks for example

However as the method used here is `setCodeWithoutChecks` and the reference is `set_code_without_checks`, maybe you can briefly explain that this js snippet is executing that call on the pallet side

---

> title: How to Fast Track a Governance Proposal

Reviewer: idk if this title should be aligned with the body title as well
```suggestion
title: Fast Track a Governance Proposal
```

### Spin Up the Polkadot Fork

To set up your Polkadot fork using Chopsticks, open a new terminal window and run the following command:

```
npx @acala-network/chopsticks --config=polkadot
```

This command will start a local fork of the Polkadot network accesible at `ws://localhost:8000`. Keep this terminal window open and running throughout your testing process.

Once your forked network is up and running, you can proceed with the following steps.

### Set Up Dependencies and Structure

Begin by adding the necessary imports and a basic structure:

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:imports'

const main = async () => {
	// The code will be added here

	process.exit(0)
}

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:try-catch-block'
```

This structure provides the foundation for your script. It imports all the necessary dependencies and sets up a main function that will contain the core logic of your proposal submission process.

### Connect to the Forked Chain

Inside your `main` function, add the code to connect to your local Polkadot fork:

> ```typescript hl_lines="2-3"

Author: Not having the `main()` function wrapping the logic seemed weird. But let me try something

> ```typescript hl_lines="2-3"

Reviewer 3: I like what you did with this

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:main'
```

> ???+ function "**connectToFork** ()"

Reviewer 3: Ah ok, so I got to the bottom of the page and I found out haha. So after seeing it all come together, I'm not sure how I feel about so swiftly moving pass the most important parts. I mean for `connectToFork` its pretty straightforward, but what about `forceProposalExecution` there's a lot going on in that function but theres only like two bullet points that discuss it. Maybe there need to be more comments in the code, wdyt?

> ???+ function "**connectToFork** ()"

Author: We could explain it more in-depth. I'm not happy about the structure and how the functions  are explained. Do you have any ideas on how to improve it?

> ???+ function "**connectToFork** ()"

Reviewer 3: Let me know what ya think

> ???+ function "**connectToFork** ()"

Author: Checking this now

	```typescript
	--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:connectToFork'

> 	```

Author: I found some spacing issues. There were tabs instead of 4 spaces. Its fixed now

???+ function "**generateProposal** (api, call, origin)"

	The `generateProposal` function accomplishes these tasks using a batched transaction, which combines multiple operations into a single transaction:

    1. `preimage.notePreimage` - this submits the preimage of the proposal
    2. `referenda.submit` - submits the actual proposal to the referenda system
    3. `referenda.placeDecisionDeposit` - places the required decision deposit for the referendum
   
	```typescript
	--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:generateProposal'
	```

### Force Proposal Execution

After submitting your proposal, you may want to test its execution without waiting for the standard voting and enactment periods. Chopsticks allows you to force the execution of a proposal by manipulating the chain state and the scheduler.

```typescript hl_lines="16-17"
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:main'
```

> ???+ function "**forceProposalExecution** (api, call, origin)"

Reviewer 3: Is there a separate mkdocs PR that goes with this one? Right now these are all rendering as note admonitions, which I actually didn't really notice until I saw this one which has a note inside of it. So we should be using something different for these

Author: There's no PR in mkdocs. What do you suggest we can do to improve this?

Reviewer 4: @eshaben : child admonitions instead?

Reviewer 3: No, not child admonitions cause those will look weird since they take up the width of the text inside them so they have the potential to be all different sizes

Reviewer 3: Would have to come up with something new, but since noticing this, I've also noticed other places were defaulting to the note. So it's fine for now and we can circle back to changing these in a separate PR that fixes all of the instances in one swoop

    The `forceProposalExecution` function does the following:

    1. It overwrites the chain storage, modifying the parameters of the proposal to set the approvals and support to the required values for the proposal to pass
    2. It then forces the scheduler to execute the actual call in the next block, instead of waiting for the original scheduled execution time

    ```typescript
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:forceProposalExecution'
    ```

    !!! note
        This function depends on the `moveScheduledCallTo` utility function, which is crucial for manipulating the scheduler in a forked chain by moving a specific scheduled call to a desired block.

    ??? function "moveScheduledCallTo (api, blockCounts, verifier)"

        ```typescript
        --8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:moveScheduledCallTo'
        ```

## Executing the Proposal Script

To run the proposal execution script, use the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx ts-node test-proposal.ts
```

> When executing the script, you should expect the following key actions and outputs:

Reviewer 3: what about using a terminal element to show the output? or is there nothing really exciting?

Author: The script does not output anything, it just executes that logic on chain

- **Chain forking** - the script connects to a forked version of the Polkadot network, allowing safe manipulation of chain state without affecting the live network.

- **Proposal generation** - a new governance proposal is created using the specified extrinsic (in this example, `setCodeWithoutChecks`)

- **State manipulation** - the referendum's storage is modified to simulate immediate approval by adjusting tally and support values to force proposal passing. Scheduled calls are then redirected to ensure immediate execution

- **Execution** - the script advances the chain to trigger the scheduled call execution. The specified call (e.g., `setCodeWithoutChecks`) is processed

## Summary

In this tutorial, you've learned how to use Chopsticks to test OpenGov proposals on a local fork of the Polkadot network. You've set up a TypeScript project, connected to a local fork, submitted a proposal, and forced its execution for testing purposes. This process allows you to:

1. Safely experiment with different types of proposals
2. Test the effects of proposals without affecting the live network

> 3. Rapidly iterate and debug your governance ideas

Reviewer 3: Seems like this could pass as an unordered list

---
title: Fast Track a Governance Proposal
description: Learn how to fast track governance proposals in Polkadot's OpenGov using Chopsticks. Simulate, test, and execute proposals confidently.
---

# Fast Track a Governance Proposal

## Introduction

Polkadot's [OpenGov](/polkadot-protocol/onchain-governance/overview){target=\_blank} is a sophisticated governance mechanism designed to allow the network to evolve gracefully over time, guided by its stakeholders. This system features multiple [tracks](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-polkadot-opengov-origins#origins-and-tracks-info){target=\_blank} for different types of proposals, each with its own parameters for approval, support, and confirmation period. While this flexibility is powerful, it also introduces complexity that can lead to failed proposals or unexpected outcomes.

> Testing governance proposals before submission is crucial for the ecosystem. This process enhances efficiency by reducing the need for repeated submissions, improves security by identifying potential risks, and allows for proposal optimization based on simulated outcomes. It also serves as an educational tool, providing stakeholders with a safe environment to understand the impacts of different voting scenarios. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Testing governance proposals before submission is crucial for the ecosystem. This process enhances efficiency by reducing the need for repeated submissions, improves security by identifying potential risks, and allows proposal optimization based on simulated outcomes. It also serves as an educational tool, providing stakeholders with a safe environment to understand the impacts of different voting scenarios. 
```

By leveraging simulation tools like [Chopsticks](/develop/toolkit/parachains/fork-chains/chopsticks){target=\_blank}, developers can:

- Simulate the entire lifecycle of a proposal
- Test the voting outcomes by varying the support and approval levels

> - Analyze the effects of successfully executed proposal on the network's state

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Analyze the effects of a successfully executed proposal on the network's state
```

- Identify and troubleshoot potential issues or unexpected consequences before submitting the proposals

> This tutorial will guide you through the process of using Chopsticks to thoroughly test OpenGov proposals, ensuring that when you submit a proposal to the live network, you can do so with confidence in its effects and viability.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This tutorial will guide you through the process of using Chopsticks to test OpenGov proposals thoroughly. This ensures that when you submit a proposal to the live network, you can do so with confidence in its effects and viability.
```

    - [Polkadot.js](/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/polkadot-js-api){target=\_blank} 
    - [OpenGov](/polkadot-protocol/onchain-governance/overview){target=\_blank}

## Setting Up the Project

Before testing OpenGov proposals, you need to set up your development environment. 
You'll set up a TypeScript project and install the required dependencies to simulate and evaluate proposals. You'll use Chopsticks to fork the Polkadot network and simulate the proposal lifecycle, while Polkadot.js will be your interface for interacting with the forked network and submitting proposals.

Follow these steps to set up your project:

1. Create a new project directory and navigate into it:
    ```bash
    mkdir opengov-chopsticks && cd opengov-chopsticks
    ```

2. Initialize a new TypeScript project:
    ```bash
    npm init -y \
    && npm install typescript ts-node @types/node --save-dev \
    && npx tsc --init
    ```

3. Install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install @polkadot/api @acala-network/chopsticks
    ```

4. Create a new TypeScript file for your script:
    ```bash
    touch test-proposal.ts
    ```

    !!!note

>         The `test-proposal.ts` file is where you'll write your code to simulate and test OpenGov proposals.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        You'll write your code to simulate and test OpenGov proposals in the `test-proposal.ts` file.
```

5. Open the `tsconfig.json` file and ensure it includes these compiler options:
    ```json
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/tsconfig.json'
    ```

## Submitting and Executing a Proposal Using Chopsticks

> It's important to note that you should identify the right track and origin for your proposal. For example, if you're requesting funds from the treasury, select the appropriate treasury track based on the spend limits. For more detailed information, refer to [Polkadot OpenGov Origins](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-polkadot-opengov-origins){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You should identify the right track and origin for your proposal. For example, select the appropriate treasury track based on the spending limits if you're requesting funds from the treasury. For more detailed information, refer to [Polkadot OpenGov Origins](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-polkadot-opengov-origins){target=\_blank}.
```

!!!note

>     In this tutorial, the focus will be on the main steps and core logic within the main function. For clarity and conciseness, the implementation details of individual functions will be available in expandable tabs below each section. At the end of the tutorial, you'll find the complete code for reference.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    This tutorial will focus on the main steps and core logic within the main function. For clarity and conciseness, the implementation details of individual functions will be available in expandable tabs below each section. You'll find the complete code for reference at the end of the tutorial.
```

### Spin Up the Polkadot Fork

To set up your Polkadot fork using Chopsticks, open a new terminal window and run the following command:

```bash
npx @acala-network/chopsticks --config=polkadot
```

> This command will start a local fork of the Polkadot network accesible at `ws://localhost:8000`. Keep this terminal window open and running throughout your testing process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This command will start a local fork of the Polkadot network accessible at `ws://localhost:8000`. Keep this terminal window open and running throughout your testing process.
```

### Set Up Dependencies and Structure

Begin by adding the necessary imports and a basic structure to the `test-proposal.ts` file:

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:imports'

const main = async () => {
  // The code will be added here

  process.exit(0);
}

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:try-catch-block'
```

This structure provides the foundation for your script. It imports all the necessary dependencies and sets up a main function that will contain the core logic of your proposal submission process.

### Connect to the Forked Chain

Create a `connectToFork` function outside the `main` function to connect your locally forked chain to the Polkadot.js API:

```typescript
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:connectToFork'
```

Inside the `main` function, add the code to establish a connection to your local Polkadot fork:

```typescript hl_lines="2-3"
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:226:229'
  ...
}
```

### Create and Submit the Proposal

> Create a `generateProposal` function responsible for preparing and submitting the on-chain proposal. The function implements a workflow that involves:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Create a `generateProposal` function responsible for preparing and submitting the on-chain proposal. The function implements a workflow that involves the following:
```

> 1. Configuring a keyring for the Alice account to facilitate transaction submission. When using Chopsticks, this development account is pre-funded to execute all necessary actions

Reviewer 3: I think it's important in tutorials that we use actionable steps. These are sort of describing what the user should be doing rather than instructing the user to configure a keyring, etc.

I mean if we really need this for launch then we can address this later, but I think this is super important

2. Executing a batch transaction that comprises three critical operations:

>     1. `preimage.notePreimage` - registers a [preimage](/polkadot-protocol/glossary#preimage){target=\_blank} using the selected call

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. **`preimage.notePreimage`** - registers a [preimage](/polkadot-protocol/glossary#preimage){target=\_blank} using the selected call
```

        !!!note

>             The preimage hash is simply the hash of the proposal to be enacted. The on-chain proposals do not require the entire image of extrinsics and data (for instance the Wasm code, in case of upgrades) to be submitted, but would rather just need that image's hash. That preimage can be submitted and stored on-chain against the hash later, upon the proposal's dispatch.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            The preimage hash is simply the hash of the proposal to be enacted. The on-chain proposals do not require the entire image of extrinsics and data (for instance, the Wasm code, in case of upgrades) to be submitted but would need that image's hash. That preimage can be submitted and stored on-chain against the hash later upon the proposal's dispatch.
```

>     2. `referenda.submit` - submits the proposal to the referenda system. It uses the preimage hash, extracted from the call, as part of the proposal submission process. The proposal is submitted with the selected origin

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    2. `referenda.submit` - submits the proposal to the referenda system. It uses the preimage hash extracted from the call as part of the proposal submission process. The proposal is submitted with the selected origin
```

>     3. `referenda.placeDecisionDeposit` - places the required decision deposit for the referendum. This deposit is required to move the referendum from the preparing phase to the deciding phase

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    3. **`referenda.placeDecisionDeposit`** - places the required decision deposit for the referendum. This deposit is required to move the referendum from the preparing phase to the deciding phase
```

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:generateProposal'
```

Within the `main` function, define the specific call you want to execute and its corresponding origin, then invoke the `generateProposal` method:

```typescript hl_lines="5-14"
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:226:240'
  ...
}
```

!!!note

>     The [`setCodeWithoutChecks`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/struct.Pallet.html#method.set_code_without_checks){target=\_blank} extrinsic used in this example is for demonstration purposes only. Replace it with the specific extrinsic that matches your governance proposal's intended functionality. Ensure the call matches the runtime requirements and governance process of your target Polkadot SDK-based network.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    The [`setCodeWithoutChecks`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/struct.Pallet.html#method.set_code_without_checks){target=\_blank} extrinsic used in this example is for demonstration purposes only. Replace it with the specific extrinsic that matches your governance proposal's intended functionality. Ensure the call matches your target Polkadot SDK-based network's runtime requirements and governance process.
```

### Force Proposal Execution

> After submitting your proposal, you might want to test its execution without waiting for the standard voting and enactment periods. Chopsticks provides a way to force the execution of a proposal by directly manipulating the chain state and scheduler.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After submitting your proposal, you can test its execution without waiting for the standard voting and enactment periods. Chopsticks provides a way to force the execution of a proposal by directly manipulating the chain state and scheduler.
```

> Create a utility function called `moveScheduledCallTo` and copy the following code. This function helps move a scheduled call to a specific future block in a forked chain by matching certain criteria.

Reviewer 3: There's a lot that happens in the `moveScheduledCallTo` function and this is the only two sentences about it. Not that I think there should be paragraphs about it, but we should really be instructing users on what to do inside of these functions instead of just being like ok, here you go. Because the goal of a tutorial is to learn by building and understanding each step along the way instead of skipping over the steps entirely

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:moveScheduledCallTo'
```

Now, create the `forceProposalExecution` function. This function does two main things:

1. Modify the chain storage to set the proposal's approvals and support to the values needed for it to pass

> 2. Force the scheduler to execute the call in the next block instead of waiting for the original scheduled time

Reviewer 3: I have similar comments here to my other two comments I made

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:forceProposalExecution'
```

After creating both functions, you can call `forceProposalExecution` from the `main` function with the `proposalIndex` obtained from calling `generateProposal`:

```typescript hl_lines="16-17"
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:main'
```

## Executing the Proposal Script

To run the proposal execution script, use the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx ts-node test-proposal.ts
```

When executing the script, you should expect the following key actions and outputs:

> - **Chain forking** - the script connects to a forked version of the Polkadot network, allowing safe manipulation of chain state without affecting the live network.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Chain forking** - the script connects to a forked version of the Polkadot network, allowing safe manipulation of the chain state without affecting the live network.
```

- **Proposal generation** - a new governance proposal is created using the specified extrinsic (in this example, `setCodeWithoutChecks`)

- **State manipulation** - the referendum's storage is modified to simulate immediate approval by adjusting tally and support values to force proposal passing. Scheduled calls are then redirected to ensure immediate execution

- **Execution** - the script advances the chain to trigger the scheduled call execution. The specified call (e.g., `setCodeWithoutChecks`) is processed

## Summary

In this tutorial, you've learned how to use Chopsticks to test OpenGov proposals on a local fork of the Polkadot network. You've set up a TypeScript project, connected to a local fork, submitted a proposal, and forced its execution for testing purposes. This process allows you to:

- Safely experiment with different types of proposals
- Test the effects of proposals without affecting the live network
- Rapidly iterate and debug your governance ideas

> By using these techniques, you can develop and refine your proposals before submitting them to the actual Polkadot network, ensuring they're well-tested and likely to achieve their intended effects.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Using these techniques, you can develop and refine your proposals before submitting them to the Polkadot network, ensuring they're well-tested and likely to achieve their intended effects.
```

## Full Code

Here's the complete code for the `test-proposal.ts` file, incorporating all the steps we've covered:

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:imports'

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:connectToFork'

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:generateProposal'

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:moveScheduledCallTo'

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:forceProposalExecution'

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:main'

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:try-catch-block'

> ```

Reviewer 3: I'd put this in an expandable element

  // The code will be added here

  process.exit(0);
}

--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:try-catch-block'
```

This structure provides the foundation for your script. It imports all the necessary dependencies and sets up a main function that will contain the core logic of your proposal submission process.

### Connect to the Forked Chain

Create a `connectToFork` function outside the `main` function to connect your locally forked chain to the Polkadot.js API:

```typescript
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:connectToFork'
```

Inside the `main` function, add the code to establish a connection to your local Polkadot fork:

```typescript hl_lines="2-3"
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:274:276'
  ...
}
```

### Create and Submit the Proposal

Create a `generateProposal` function that will be responsible for preparing and submitting the on-chain proposal:

```typescript
--8<-- 'code/tutorials/onchain-governance/fast-track-gov-proposal/test-proposal.ts:35:39'
    ...
}
```

Now, you need to implement the following logic:

> 1. Set up the keyring and use Alice development account

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Set up the keyring and use the Alice development account
```
